---
title: Homework
module: 5
jotted: true
---

# Homework

For your homework this week, you will

You are going to create an online registration system for Esports players. You will need to keep track of the
gamer’s name, address, phone, gamer tag, game(s) they play, and whether they play on console or PC. 

### For players:

1. They should be able to register, and login/logout
2. Enter, view, and edit the game(s) they play.
3. Enter, view and edit their name, address, phone
4. Enter, view and edit their gamer tag
5. They should be able to subscribe or unsubscribe from correspondence
6. They should be able to change their information including their username and password

### For administrators

1. They should able to login/logout
2. They should able to view all players and their details.
3. They should be able to search for a player by name and/or gamer tag
4. They should be able to run reports on all the players, including games played.
5. They should able to change their information including their username and password

### For both players and admins

1. If they attempt to log in more than three times unsuccessfully, they should be locked out

In this homework, you should change the registration to restrict the games chosen to a checkboxes, and you should have an agreement checkbox for the student code of conduct.  For the address, restrict the states to a dropdown box.  Also, you should add some validation to the name, email, and phone number fields.  Required field validation should be applied.  In ASP.NET, you should add RegularExpression Validation as well.

Specifics for this homework:

1. Change the registration pages so that the games played are chosen by checkboxes instead of  textboxes in both ASP.NET and your basic HTML (PHP) page.
2. Add a checkbox where each player agrees to the student code of conduct.
3. Validate the name, email and phone as required fields.
4. Use Regular Expressions to validate email and phone in ASP.NET and PHP.
5. Upload all pages to GitHub.
6. Submit your GitHub link to Moodle.